docs/evaluation.md, before:

<div align="center">

# Creating and running evaluations

</div>

The evaluation pipeline consists of an evaluator (specific to a benchmark) which takes a model and a group of evaluation metrics, computes and reports the evaluations. The evaluation settings are stored in experiment configs which can be used off-the-shelf.

We discuss full details of creating metrics in [#metrics](#metrics) and benchmarks in [#benchmarks](#benchmarks).


## Quick evaluation
Run the TOFU benchmark evaluation on a checkpoint of a LLaMA 3.2 model:
```bash
python src/eval.py --config-name=eval.yaml \
  experiment=eval/tofu/llama2 \ 
  model=Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct \ 
  model.model_args.pretrained_model_name_or_path=<LOCAL_MODEL_PATH> \
  task_name=SAMPLE_EVAL
```
- `--config-name=eval.yaml`- sets task to be [`configs/eval.yaml`](../configs/eval.yaml)
- `experiment=eval/tofu/default`- set experiment to use [`configs/eval/tofu/default.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu/default.yaml)
- `model=Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct`- override the default (`Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct`) model config to use [`configs/model/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct`](../configs/model/Phi-3.5-mini-instruct.yaml).
- Output directory: constructed as `saves/eval/SAMPLE_EVAL`


Run the MUSE-Books benchmark evaluation on a checkpoint of a Phi-3.5 model:
```bash
python src/eval.py --config-name=eval.yaml \
  experiment=eval/muse/default \
  data_split=Books
  model=Llama-2-7b-hf.yaml \
  model.model_args.pretrained_model_name_or_path=<LOCAL_MODEL_PATH> \
  task_name=SAMPLE_EVAL
```
- `---config-name=eval.yaml`- this is set by default so can be omitted
- `data_split=Books`- overrides the default MUSE data split (News). See [`configs/experiment/eval/muse/default.yaml`](../configs/experiment/eval/muse/default.yaml)

## Metrics

A metric takes a model and a dataset and computes statistics of the model over the datapoints (or) takes other metrics and computes an aggregated score over the dataset.

Some metrics are reported as both individual points and aggregated values (averaged): probability scores, ROUGE scores, MIA attack statistics, Truth Ratio scores etc. They return a dictionary which is structured as `{"agg_value": ..., "values_by_index": {"0":..., "1":..., ...}}`.

Other metrics like TOFU's Forget Quality (which is a single score computed over forget v/s retain distributions of Truth Ratio) and MUSE's PrivLeak (which is a single score computed over forget v/s holdout distributions of MIA attack values) aggregate the former metrics into a single score. They return a dictionary which contains `{"agg_value": ...}`.

### Steps to create new metrics:

#### 1. Implement a handler
Metric handlers are implemented in [`src/evals/metrics`](../src/evals/metrics/), where we define handlers for `probability`, `rouge`, `privleak` etc.

A metric handler is implemented as a function decorated with `@unlearning_metric`. This decorator wraps the function into an UnlearningMetric object. This provides functionality to automatically load and prepare datasets and collators for `probability` as specified in the eval config ([example](../configs/eval/tofu_metrics/forget_Q_A_Prob.yaml)), so they are readily available for use in the function.


Example: implementing the `rouge` and `privleak` handlers

```python
# in src/evals/metrics/memorization.py
@unlearning_metric(name="rouge")
def rouge(model, **kwargs):
    """Calculate ROUGE metrics and return the aggregated value along with per-index scores."""
    # kwargs is populated on the basic of the metric configuration
    # The configuration for datasets, collators mentioned in metric config are automatically instantiatied and are provided in kwargs
    tokenizer = kwargs["tokenizer"]
    data = kwargs["data"]
    collator = kwargs["collators"]
    batch_size = kwargs["batch_size"]
    generation_args = kwargs["generation_args"]
    ...
    return {
        "agg_value": np.mean(rouge_values),
        "value_by_index": scores_by_index,
    }

# in src/evals/metrics/privacy.py
@unlearning_metric(name="privleak")
def privleak(model, **kwargs):
  # the privleak quality metric is found from computed statistics of 
  # other metrics like MIA attack scores, which is provided through kwargs
  ...
  return {'agg_value': (score-ref)/(ref+1e-10)*100}

```
- `@unlearning_metric(name="rouge")` - Defines a `rouge` handler.

> [!NOTE]
`kwargs` contains many important attributes that are useful while computing metrics. It will contain all the metric-specific parameters defined in the metric's yaml file, and also contain the created objects corresponding to the other attributes mentioned in the metric config: such as the `"tokenizer"`, `"data"` (the preprocessed torch dataset), `"batch_size"`, `"collator"`, `"generation_args"`, `"pre_compute"` (prior metrics the current metric depends on), and `"reference_logs"` (evals from a reference model the current metric can use).

#### 2. Register the metric handler
Register the handler to link the class to the configs via the class name in [`METRIC_REGISTRY`](../src/evals/metrics/__init__.py).

Example: Registering the `rouge` handler

```python
from evals.metrics.memorization import rouge
from evals.metrics.privacy import rouge
_register_metric(rouge)
```

#### 3. Add a metric to configs
Metric configurations are in [`configs/eval/tofu_metrics`](../configs/eval/tofu_metrics/) and [`configs/eval/muse_metrics`](../configs/eval/muse_metrics/). These create individual evaluation metrics by providing the handler a specific dataset and other parameters. Multiple metrics may use the same handler.

Example 1: Creating the config for MUSE's `forget_verbmem_ROUGE` ([`configs/eval/muse_metrics/forget_knowmem_ROUGE.yaml`](../configs/eval/muse_metrics/forget_knowmem_ROUGE.yaml)). 



```yaml
# @package eval.muse.metrics.forget_verbmem_ROUGE
# NOTE: the above line is not a comment. See 
# https://hydra.cc/docs/upgrades/0.11_to_1.0/adding_a_package_directive/
# it ensures that the below attributes are found in the config path
# eval.muse.metrics.forget_verbmem_ROUGE in the final config
defaults: # fill up forget_verbmem_ROUGE's inputs' configs
  - ../../data/datasets@datasets: MUSE_forget_verbmem
  - ../../collator@collators: DataCollatorForSupervisedDatasetwithIndex
  - ../../generation@generation_args: default
handler: rouge # the handler we defined above
rouge_type: rougeL_f1
batch_size: 8
# override default parameters
datasets:
  MUSE_forget_verbmem:
    args:
      hf_args:
        path: muse-bench/MUSE-${eval.muse.data_split}
      predict_with_generate: True
collators:
  DataCollatorForSupervisedDataset: 
    args:
      padding_side: left # for generation
generation_args:
  max_new_tokens: 128
```

Example 2: Creating the config for TOFU's `forget_quality` ([`configs/eval/tofu_metrics/forget_quality.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu_metrics/forget_quality.yaml)).

```yaml
# @package eval.tofu.metrics.forget_quality
defaults:
  - .@pre_compute.forget_truth_ratio: forget_Truth_Ratio

reference_logs:
 # forget quality is computed by comparing truth_ratio 
 # of the given model to a retain model
 # Way to access in metric function: kwargs["reference_logs"]["retain_model_logs"]["retain"]
  retain_model_logs: # name to acess the loaded logs in metric function
    path: ${eval.tofu.retain_logs_path} # path to load the logs
    include: 
      forget_truth_ratio: # keys to include from the logs
        access_key: retain # name of the key to access it inside metric
      
# since the forget_quality metric depends on another metric (truth ratio)
pre_compute:
  forget_truth_ratio:
    access_key: forget

handler: ks_test # the handler with logic that is registered in code 
```


### Designing metrics that depend on other metrics

Some evaluation metrics are designed as transformations of one or more other metrics. 

Examples: 1. TOFU's Truth Ratio uses probability metrics for true and false model responses. 2. MUSE's PrivLeak uses AUC values computed over MinK% probability metrics. 3. TOFU's Model Utility is a harmonic mean of 9 evaluation metrics that measure a model's utility in various ways.

To remove the need for re-computing such metrics, our evaluators support a "precompute" feature, where one can list the metric dependencies in a metric's configs. These parent metrics are then precomputed and saved in the evaluator and provided to the child metric's handler to perform the transformations. The `forget_quality` config example in the previous section illustrates the usage of the "precompute" features. 

Another example of declaring dependent metrics is `truth_ratio`:

```yaml
# @package eval.tofu.metrics.forget_truth_ratio

defaults: # load parent metric configs under the precompute attribute
  - .@pre_compute.forget_Q_A_PARA_Prob: forget_Q_A_PARA_Prob
  - .@pre_compute.forget_Q_A_PERT_Prob: forget_Q_A_PERT_Prob

pre_compute:
  forget_Q_A_PARA_Prob: # parent metric
    access_key: correct # sets a key to access the pre-computed values from
  forget_Q_A_PERT_Prob: # parent metric
    access_key: wrong

handler: forget_truth_ratio
```

The corresponding handler:
```python
# in src/evals/metrics/memorization.py
@unlearning_metric(name="truth_ratio")
def truth_ratio(model, **kwargs):
    """Compute the truth ratio, aggregating false/true scores, and
    return the aggregated value."""
    # kwargs contains all necessary data, including pre-computes
    ...
    # access pre-computes using the defined access keys
    correct_answer_results = kwargs["pre_compute"]["correct"]["value_by_index"]
    wrong_answer_results = kwargs["pre_compute"]["wrong"]["value_by_index"]
    ...
    return {"agg_value": forget_tr_avg, "value_by_index": value_by_index}
```



## Benchmarks

A benchmark (also called evaluator) is a collection of evaluation metrics defined above (e.g. TOFU, MUSE). To add a new benchmark:

### Implement a handler

In the handlers in [`src/evals`](../src/evals/) ([example](../src/evals/tofu.py)), you can add code to: modify the collection, aggregation and reporting of the metrics computed, any pre-eval model preparation etc.

### Register the benchmark handler
Register the benchmark to link the class to the configs via the class name in [`BENCHMARK_REGISTRY`](../src/evals/__init__.py).

Example: Registering TOFU benchmark

```python
from evals.tofu import TOFUEvaluator
_register_benchmark(TOFUEvaluator)
```

### Add to configs
Evaluator config files are in [`configs/eval`](../configs/eval/), e.g [`configs/eval/tofu.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu.yaml).

Example: TOFU evaluator config file ([`configs/eval/tofu.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu.yaml))

```yaml
# @package eval.tofu
defaults: # include all the metrics that come under the TOFU evaluator
  - tofu_metrics: # When you import a metric here, its configuration automatically populates the 
  # metrics mapping below, enabled by the @package directive at the top of each metric config file.
    - forget_quality
    - forget_Q_A_Prob
    - forget_Q_A_ROUGE
    - model_utility # populated in the metrics key as metrics.model_utility

handler: TOFUEvaluator
metrics: {} # lists a mapping from each evaluation metric listed above to its config 
output_dir: ${paths.output_dir} # set to default eval directory
forget_split: forget10
```

## lm-evaluation-harness

To evaluate model capabilities after unlearning, we support running [lm-eval-harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness/tree/main) using our custom evaluator: [LMEvalEvaluator](../src/evals/lm_eval.py).
All evaluation tasks should be defined under the  `tasks` in [lm_eval.yaml](../configs/eval/lm_eval.yaml)

```yaml
# @package eval.lm_eval
# NOTE: the above line is not a comment, but sets the package for config. See https://hydra.cc/docs/upgrades/0.11_to_1.0/adding_a_package_directive/

handler: LMEvalEvaluator
output_dir: ${paths.output_dir} # set to default eval directory
overwrite: false

# Define evaluation tasks here
tasks:
  - mmlu
  - wmdp_cyber
  - task: gsm8k
    dataset_path: gsm8k
    # define the entire task config. 
    # ^ Example: https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness/blob/main/lm_eval/tasks/gsm8k/gsm8k.yaml
    


simple_evaluate_args:
  batch_size: 16
  system_instruction: null
  apply_chat_template: false
```

Commit message:

feat(eval): retain_logs_path logging, docs, and PR creation improvements
- Log when retain_logs_path is None and privleak/forget_quality chosen
  (at start of run, evaluation, and metric)
- Add retain_logs_path docs: meaning, how to set, Hydra overrides
- Enhance privleak/rel_diff warnings with full guidance message

docs/evaluation.md, after:

<div align="center">

# Creating and running evaluations

</div>

The evaluation pipeline consists of an evaluator (specific to a benchmark) which takes a model and a group of evaluation metrics, computes and reports the evaluations. The evaluation settings are stored in experiment configs which can be used off-the-shelf.

We discuss full details of creating metrics in [#metrics](#metrics) and benchmarks in [#benchmarks](#benchmarks).


## Quick evaluation
Run the TOFU benchmark evaluation on a checkpoint of a LLaMA 3.2 model:
```bash
python src/eval.py --config-name=eval.yaml \
  experiment=eval/tofu/llama2 \ 
  model=Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct \ 
  model.model_args.pretrained_model_name_or_path=<LOCAL_MODEL_PATH> \
  task_name=SAMPLE_EVAL
```
- `--config-name=eval.yaml`- sets task to be [`configs/eval.yaml`](../configs/eval.yaml)
- `experiment=eval/tofu/default`- set experiment to use [`configs/eval/tofu/default.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu/default.yaml)
- `model=Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct`- override the default (`Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct`) model config to use [`configs/model/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct`](../configs/model/Phi-3.5-mini-instruct.yaml).
- Output directory: constructed as `saves/eval/SAMPLE_EVAL`


Run the MUSE-Books benchmark evaluation on a checkpoint of a Phi-3.5 model:
```bash
python src/eval.py --config-name=eval.yaml \
  experiment=eval/muse/default \
  data_split=Books
  model=Llama-2-7b-hf.yaml \
  model.model_args.pretrained_model_name_or_path=<LOCAL_MODEL_PATH> \
  task_name=SAMPLE_EVAL
```
- `---config-name=eval.yaml`- this is set by default so can be omitted
- `data_split=Books`- overrides the default MUSE data split (News). See [`configs/experiment/eval/muse/default.yaml`](../configs/experiment/eval/muse/default.yaml)

## Metrics

A metric takes a model and a dataset and computes statistics of the model over the datapoints (or) takes other metrics and computes an aggregated score over the dataset.

Some metrics are reported as both individual points and aggregated values (averaged): probability scores, ROUGE scores, MIA attack statistics, Truth Ratio scores etc. They return a dictionary which is structured as `{"agg_value": ..., "values_by_index": {"0":..., "1":..., ...}}`.

Other metrics like TOFU's Forget Quality (which is a single score computed over forget v/s retain distributions of Truth Ratio) and MUSE's PrivLeak (which is a single score computed over forget v/s holdout distributions of MIA attack values) aggregate the former metrics into a single score. They return a dictionary which contains `{"agg_value": ...}`.

### Steps to create new metrics:

#### 1. Implement a handler
Metric handlers are implemented in [`src/evals/metrics`](../src/evals/metrics/), where we define handlers for `probability`, `rouge`, `privleak` etc.

A metric handler is implemented as a function decorated with `@unlearning_metric`. This decorator wraps the function into an UnlearningMetric object. This provides functionality to automatically load and prepare datasets and collators for `probability` as specified in the eval config ([example](../configs/eval/tofu_metrics/forget_Q_A_Prob.yaml)), so they are readily available for use in the function.


Example: implementing the `rouge` and `privleak` handlers

```python
# in src/evals/metrics/memorization.py
@unlearning_metric(name="rouge")
def rouge(model, **kwargs):
    """Calculate ROUGE metrics and return the aggregated value along with per-index scores."""
    # kwargs is populated on the basic of the metric configuration
    # The configuration for datasets, collators mentioned in metric config are automatically instantiatied and are provided in kwargs
    tokenizer = kwargs["tokenizer"]
    data = kwargs["data"]
    collator = kwargs["collators"]
    batch_size = kwargs["batch_size"]
    generation_args = kwargs["generation_args"]
    ...
    return {
        "agg_value": np.mean(rouge_values),
        "value_by_index": scores_by_index,
    }

# in src/evals/metrics/privacy.py
@unlearning_metric(name="privleak")
def privleak(model, **kwargs):
  # the privleak quality metric is found from computed statistics of 
  # other metrics like MIA attack scores, which is provided through kwargs
  ...
  return {'agg_value': (score-ref)/(ref+1e-10)*100}

```
- `@unlearning_metric(name="rouge")` - Defines a `rouge` handler.

> [!NOTE]
`kwargs` contains many important attributes that are useful while computing metrics. It will contain all the metric-specific parameters defined in the metric's yaml file, and also contain the created objects corresponding to the other attributes mentioned in the metric config: such as the `"tokenizer"`, `"data"` (the preprocessed torch dataset), `"batch_size"`, `"collator"`, `"generation_args"`, `"pre_compute"` (prior metrics the current metric depends on), and `"reference_logs"` (evals from a reference model the current metric can use).

#### retain_logs_path (for privleak and forget_quality)

The metrics **privleak** and **forget_quality** compare the unlearned model to a **retain (baseline) model**. They require pre-computed evals from the retain model, loaded from a JSON file.

**What it means:** The retain model is the model *before* unlearning—typically finetuned on the retain split. Its evals (e.g. MIA AUC for privleak, Truth Ratio for forget_quality) serve as the reference. Without them, privleak falls back to `ref_value` (0.5) and forget_quality returns None.

**How to set it:**

1. **Evaluate your retain model** and save results to JSON:
   ```bash
   python src/eval.py experiment=eval/tofu/default.yaml \
     model.model_args.pretrained_model_name_or_path=saves/finetune/tofu_retain95 \
     paths.output_dir=saves/eval/tofu_retain95
   ```
   This produces `saves/eval/tofu_retain95/TOFU_EVAL.json`.

2. **Pass the path** via Hydra override when evaluating the unlearned model:
   ```bash
   # TOFU (standard or trajectory)
   eval.tofu.retain_logs_path=saves/eval/tofu_retain95/TOFU_EVAL.json
   eval.tofu_trajectory.retain_logs_path=saves/eval/tofu_retain95/TOFU_EVAL.json

   # MUSE
   eval.muse.retain_logs_path=saves/eval/muse_retain/MUSE_EVAL.json
   eval.muse_trajectory.retain_logs_path=saves/eval/muse_retain/MUSE_EVAL.json
   ```

3. **When retain_logs_path is None:** The evaluator logs a warning at the start of the run, at the start of evaluation, and when the metric runs. The run continues; privleak uses the default and forget_quality returns None.

#### 2. Register the metric handler
Register the handler to link the class to the configs via the class name in [`METRIC_REGISTRY`](../src/evals/metrics/__init__.py).

Example: Registering the `rouge` handler

```python
from evals.metrics.memorization import rouge
from evals.metrics.privacy import rouge
_register_metric(rouge)
```

#### 3. Add a metric to configs
Metric configurations are in [`configs/eval/tofu_metrics`](../configs/eval/tofu_metrics/) and [`configs/eval/muse_metrics`](../configs/eval/muse_metrics/). These create individual evaluation metrics by providing the handler a specific dataset and other parameters. Multiple metrics may use the same handler.

Example 1: Creating the config for MUSE's `forget_verbmem_ROUGE` ([`configs/eval/muse_metrics/forget_knowmem_ROUGE.yaml`](../configs/eval/muse_metrics/forget_knowmem_ROUGE.yaml)). 



```yaml
# @package eval.muse.metrics.forget_verbmem_ROUGE
# NOTE: the above line is not a comment. See 
# https://hydra.cc/docs/upgrades/0.11_to_1.0/adding_a_package_directive/
# it ensures that the below attributes are found in the config path
# eval.muse.metrics.forget_verbmem_ROUGE in the final config
defaults: # fill up forget_verbmem_ROUGE's inputs' configs
  - ../../data/datasets@datasets: MUSE_forget_verbmem
  - ../../collator@collators: DataCollatorForSupervisedDatasetwithIndex
  - ../../generation@generation_args: default
handler: rouge # the handler we defined above
rouge_type: rougeL_f1
batch_size: 8
# override default parameters
datasets:
  MUSE_forget_verbmem:
    args:
      hf_args:
        path: muse-bench/MUSE-${eval.muse.data_split}
      predict_with_generate: True
collators:
  DataCollatorForSupervisedDataset: 
    args:
      padding_side: left # for generation
generation_args:
  max_new_tokens: 128
```

Example 2: Creating the config for TOFU's `forget_quality` ([`configs/eval/tofu_metrics/forget_quality.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu_metrics/forget_quality.yaml)).

```yaml
# @package eval.tofu.metrics.forget_quality
defaults:
  - .@pre_compute.forget_truth_ratio: forget_Truth_Ratio

reference_logs:
 # forget quality is computed by comparing truth_ratio 
 # of the given model to a retain model
 # Way to access in metric function: kwargs["reference_logs"]["retain_model_logs"]["retain"]
  retain_model_logs: # name to acess the loaded logs in metric function
    path: ${eval.tofu.retain_logs_path} # path to load the logs
    include: 
      forget_truth_ratio: # keys to include from the logs
        access_key: retain # name of the key to access it inside metric
      
# since the forget_quality metric depends on another metric (truth ratio)
pre_compute:
  forget_truth_ratio:
    access_key: forget

handler: ks_test # the handler with logic that is registered in code 
```


### Designing metrics that depend on other metrics

Some evaluation metrics are designed as transformations of one or more other metrics. 

Examples: 1. TOFU's Truth Ratio uses probability metrics for true and false model responses. 2. MUSE's PrivLeak uses AUC values computed over MinK% probability metrics. 3. TOFU's Model Utility is a harmonic mean of 9 evaluation metrics that measure a model's utility in various ways.

To remove the need for re-computing such metrics, our evaluators support a "precompute" feature, where one can list the metric dependencies in a metric's configs. These parent metrics are then precomputed and saved in the evaluator and provided to the child metric's handler to perform the transformations. The `forget_quality` config example in the previous section illustrates the usage of the "precompute" features. 

Another example of declaring dependent metrics is `truth_ratio`:

```yaml
# @package eval.tofu.metrics.forget_truth_ratio

defaults: # load parent metric configs under the precompute attribute
  - .@pre_compute.forget_Q_A_PARA_Prob: forget_Q_A_PARA_Prob
  - .@pre_compute.forget_Q_A_PERT_Prob: forget_Q_A_PERT_Prob

pre_compute:
  forget_Q_A_PARA_Prob: # parent metric
    access_key: correct # sets a key to access the pre-computed values from
  forget_Q_A_PERT_Prob: # parent metric
    access_key: wrong

handler: forget_truth_ratio
```

The corresponding handler:
```python
# in src/evals/metrics/memorization.py
@unlearning_metric(name="truth_ratio")
def truth_ratio(model, **kwargs):
    """Compute the truth ratio, aggregating false/true scores, and
    return the aggregated value."""
    # kwargs contains all necessary data, including pre-computes
    ...
    # access pre-computes using the defined access keys
    correct_answer_results = kwargs["pre_compute"]["correct"]["value_by_index"]
    wrong_answer_results = kwargs["pre_compute"]["wrong"]["value_by_index"]
    ...
    return {"agg_value": forget_tr_avg, "value_by_index": value_by_index}
```



## Benchmarks

A benchmark (also called evaluator) is a collection of evaluation metrics defined above (e.g. TOFU, MUSE). To add a new benchmark:

### Implement a handler

In the handlers in [`src/evals`](../src/evals/) ([example](../src/evals/tofu.py)), you can add code to: modify the collection, aggregation and reporting of the metrics computed, any pre-eval model preparation etc.

### Register the benchmark handler
Register the benchmark to link the class to the configs via the class name in [`BENCHMARK_REGISTRY`](../src/evals/__init__.py).

Example: Registering TOFU benchmark

```python
from evals.tofu import TOFUEvaluator
_register_benchmark(TOFUEvaluator)
```

### Add to configs
Evaluator config files are in [`configs/eval`](../configs/eval/), e.g [`configs/eval/tofu.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu.yaml).

Example: TOFU evaluator config file ([`configs/eval/tofu.yaml`](../configs/eval/tofu.yaml))

```yaml
# @package eval.tofu
defaults: # include all the metrics that come under the TOFU evaluator
  - tofu_metrics: # When you import a metric here, its configuration automatically populates the 
  # metrics mapping below, enabled by the @package directive at the top of each metric config file.
    - forget_quality
    - forget_Q_A_Prob
    - forget_Q_A_ROUGE
    - model_utility # populated in the metrics key as metrics.model_utility

handler: TOFUEvaluator
metrics: {} # lists a mapping from each evaluation metric listed above to its config 
output_dir: ${paths.output_dir} # set to default eval directory
forget_split: forget10
```

## lm-evaluation-harness

To evaluate model capabilities after unlearning, we support running [lm-eval-harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness/tree/main) using our custom evaluator: [LMEvalEvaluator](../src/evals/lm_eval.py).
All evaluation tasks should be defined under the  `tasks` in [lm_eval.yaml](../configs/eval/lm_eval.yaml)

```yaml
# @package eval.lm_eval
# NOTE: the above line is not a comment, but sets the package for config. See https://hydra.cc/docs/upgrades/0.11_to_1.0/adding_a_package_directive/

handler: LMEvalEvaluator
output_dir: ${paths.output_dir} # set to default eval directory
overwrite: false

# Define evaluation tasks here
tasks:
  - mmlu
  - wmdp_cyber
  - task: gsm8k
    dataset_path: gsm8k
    # define the entire task config. 
    # ^ Example: https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness/blob/main/lm_eval/tasks/gsm8k/gsm8k.yaml
    


simple_evaluate_args:
  batch_size: 16
  system_instruction: null
  apply_chat_template: false
```
